# 6. Explain why it is important to only use reliable and valid sources of Open Source Intelligence in

When gathering OSINT, it's crucial to reply on reliable and valid sources. Using inaccurate, unverified or using OSINT illegally can lead to significant consequences for both the individual or organisation involved an the decisions they make.

Firstly, if the data gathered is unreliable, it can lead to false conclusions or misguided actions. For example, basing a strategy gathering on incorrect data might result in an incorrect response to a threat, and most likely, making it worse, and ignoring an actual risk. This can leave your system vulnerable to attacks that could have been prevented.

Secondly, using OSINT illegally. In the case of Smith v Trafford Housing Trust case, an employer used unreliable OSINT to make an employment decision. Smith was demoted after posting a comment about gay marriage in a church on Facebook. The court ruled that his demotion was wrong, this resulted in the employer having to pay damages. This case highlights how poor OSINT can lead to significant legal issues, including violations of privacy laws and potential compensation claims.

When gathering OSINT, the important thing to keep in mind, is GDPR(General Data Protection Regulation). When handling personal data, it needs to be done in a legal and ethical way. Under GDRP, organisations must ensure they have legal basis for collecting or processing personal data. Even though tis information may be public, it doesn't mean it can be freely used. Personal data shouldn't be collected without a clear consent or another legal basis.
