# 11. Describe the term security by design (AC 3.1)

The term **security be design** is a methodology of creating systems, applications or processes with security in mind from the very beginning, and not as an afterthought. This should significantly reduce the risk of vulnerabilities and attacks.\
\


According to [security.gov.uk](https://www.security.gov.uk/policy-and-guidance/secure-by-design/principles/) there are 10 principles to follow:\
\
**1.Create responsibility for cyber security risk**\
Assign risk owners to be accountable for risks. These must be senior stakeholders with experience, knowledge and authority to lead on security activities.\
\
**2. Source secure technology products**\
If using third-party products, ensure there are no security vulnerabilities. \
\
**3.  Adopt a risk-driven approach**\
Establish how risky the project is and continue doing so through out it's life time as cyber is ever evolving.\
\
**4. Design usable security controls**\
Perform regular user research and implement findings into service design to make sure security processes are fit for purposes and easy to understand\
\
**5. Build in detect and respond security**\
Design your project in a way where you expect vulnerabilities and incidents and are equipped to log those appropriately.\
\
**6. Design flexible architectures**\
Make sure your project can be updated and upgraded as time goes on.\
\
**7. Minimise the attack surface**\
Use the absolute minimum of capabilities, software, data and hardware components necessary. If an attack happens, it'll mitigate the impact.\
\
**8. Defend in depth**\
Create layered controls across a service. This way, the attackers will not fully compromise the system.\
\
**9. Embed continuous assurance**\
Make sure security is constantly checked and tested to ensure it works well.\
\
**10. Make changes securely**\
Build security into every step: planning, creating and launching.
