# 2. Explain the importance of cyber security (AC 1.2)

**Why is cyber security important?**\
\
Without cyber security the world wouldn't be the same as we know it today. Thanks to it, the internet is (relatively) safe and because of that, most of use it daily. All the services you use have cyber security in place, whether it's emails, instant messaging, banking, streaming or just browsing. \
\
**Your sensitive data is protected**. Organisation handle personal, financial and business-critical information. Cyber security ensures this data stays private.\
\
**Prevents financial loss**\
Cyberattacks can cause huge financial damage through stolen funds or through downtime. Downtime in a large enough business can mean enormous sums of money.\
\
**Maintains trust**\
Customers, employees, and business partners expect their data to be safe. A breach can damage a company's reputation and break trust, which is hard to rebuild.\
\
**Ensures business continuity** \
Cyberattacks can disrupt operations or shut down critical systems. Effective cybersecurity measures help keep business running smoothly.\
\
**Protects national security**\
At a large scale, cybersecurity is vital for safeguarding critical infrastructure, government systems and national security from cyber espionage. ([A great video from Practical Engineering on YT about hacking a water system company in USA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VE1wM4oIh8Y\&ab_channel=PracticalEngineering)\
\
Cybersecurity is a fundamental part of protecting people, businesses and even countries\
\
\
\
