# 7. Explain the motivations of good actors and bad actors (AC 2.4)

Motivation for good actors are varied and not too dissimilar to motivation of bad actors. \
\
**Good Actors**\
As the name implies will usually do 'good' in the world with their work. A good actors' motivation can be to make the online world a safer place for your average user. Think of all the security protocols there are when you're using the web, or encrypted messaging on your phone. Behind each security protocol there's a team of dedicated people, all motivated to make the internet a relatively safe space. Thanks to their work, internet has become widely used for basically everything. From listening to streaming music, online banking. A good actor might work for a organisation dedicated to protecting companies systems, networks and databases. A good actor can be your friend advising you the best online practices, such as using a strong password, and using a different password for each service.\
\
**Bad Actors**\
Motivation for bad actors is almost the exact opposite of the good actors.  Bad actor's motivation is usually personal or financial gain. They're also the reason why the internet looks the way it does now. They're the opposing force to good actors. Bad actor will often challenge themselves by hacking into high value targets such Microsoft, Apple, Samsung. Their motivation for hacking could be political. They might act on their own, or be hired to disrupt government's services or utilities.&#x20;
