# 17. Justify the implementation of the chosen cyber security control (AC 4.3)

**The scenario**: Mama Jane - Family owned pizza place were worried bad actors were going to steal their secret pizza sauce recipe. They decided to encrypt a folder containing their family recipes. They use Windows 10.\
\
I'll answer some of the questions provided in the workbook Unit 3 - Section 4, slide 7\
\
**Risk**\
The risk here is that hackers, other pizza joints, would access their computer and steal their secret recipe.\
\
**Cost**\
There's no cost associated with encrypting a folder. There are now ongoing fees, or subscription. It's all part of the Windows toolkit. There are no official internal costs related to people's time as it is a family business. The daughter, who is most skilled with IT, was asked to do this. She's spent a short amount of time researching, and quickly implemented it. \
\
**Context**\
This type of control fits into the over cyber security plan well, it ticks all the boxes. It's quick, cheap and effective. Similar organisation may go for a physical approach and get a physical safe, and keep their secret recipe on a piece of paper hidden inside the safe.\
**Regulation**\
There are no regulations to keep in mind regarding this cyber security control\
\
**Benefits**\
Overall, this implementation was extremely easy, it's free, and very effective. With their secret sauce recipe safely encrypted, the family can now focus on providing excellent service to their customers.
