# 1. Explain the importance of managing and promoting a positive digital identity (AC 1.1)

Why is it important to have a positive digital identity and what exactly is positive digital identity?\
\
**What's a positive digital identity**\
There's no strict formula for this, but it is generally a good idea to have a professional looking work account such as Linkedin. To score more 'brownie points', having a well curated blog or a website relevant to your field is always a good idea, such as [this one](https://cyber-11.gitbook.io/i-hack-i-conquer). I would strongly recommend this to anyone to google their name. You might be surprised what you find. And according to your findings, you can curate your digital identity. Delete anything that could be interpreted negatively and keep all the positives.\
Any social accounts such as Facebook, Instagram etc. should be kept either private, so your potential employers can't see photos/videos of your fun, inebriated activities you get into on Friday night. Alternatively, if you'd like to keep your social profiles open for the world to see, you should refrain from posting these and very importantly don't get into controversial arguments.\
\
Your digital footprint could be the deciding factor when being considered for a cyber security position. Your potential employer will most likely do a bit of 'OSINT' on you, so it's important that the stuff they find on you is to their liking. When it comes to online identity, cybersecurity professionals are held to a much higher standard in other professions. That's because cybersecurity professionals serve as role models for best practices in digital security. If you are careless about your own online presence, it undermines your ability to advise other on protecting themselves from cyber threat. By demonstrating secure online behaviour, including strong privacy measures, responsible social media use, and ethical engagement with the cybersecurity community(such as posting on reddit.com/r/cybersecurity), you will reinforce the importance of digital hygiene.\
\
Tip: Don't use VPN to use LinkedIn. They will make it really difficult to use the account and may get you banned.&#x20;
