# 13. Explain why it is important to keep CPD up to date (AC 3.3)

Cybersecurity is fast evolving field. New platforms, apps, systems, vulnerabilities, exploits, malicious software is coming out basically constantly. That is why it's important to keep learning and improving your skills. Bad actors will never stop and so you shouldn't stop either. In cybersecurity, things move really fast, so when you stop learning, even if it's for a year, you'll be significantly behind. It'll be like you stopped for a decade.\
Hopefully whatever company you'll work for will support you in CPD and provide necessary resources and fully paid days specifically for learning and developing.\
\
Another plus of CPD is that it will allow you to progress in your career. Employers value CPD greatly as it shows your passion and interest in cyber and will give you higher chance for a promotion or at finding a new job.\
\
CPD can introduce you to new tools and technologies. It's tempting to keep using the tools you know and are familiar with, but new tools can be a great solutions to old problems.\
\
CompTIA certificates and courses are internationally recognised and will [count ](https://www.reed.co.uk/courses/comptia-a-cpd-certified/500481#/courses/comptia-a/cpd)towards your CPD.\
[Reed Courses](https://www.reed.co.uk/courses/cpd?keywords=cyber) is a handy search directory providing over 1000 cyber courses that are CPD certified.\
\
Organisation will often require you to stay informed through CPD to ensure that the organisation will remain compliant and to avoid legal or financial penalties.\
\
CPDs in the form of webinars or lectures are great way of building professional networks. Professional connections can be invaluable, they can provide meaningful insights, support and opportunities for collaborations.&#x20;
